---
layout: post
title: "Phuket!"
date: 2015-06-30
backgrounds:
    - https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kadie16/kadie16.github.io/master/assets/images/posts/i-swear/background3.png   
thumb: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kadie16/kadie16.github.io/master/assets/images/posts/i-swear/6angel.png
category: Thailand
tags: Phuket
---

There is something really special about traveling alone. I don't know exactly how to describe it but it's addicting. It's such a genuine feeling, experiencing and discovering and appreciating things by yourself. Everything you do is for you. That is something I could benefit from doing more often. 

Please excuse my cheesiness. But I'm having a really intimate vacation with myself and I love it. Lol. 

On Saturday morning, I booked a plane ticket to Phuket for that evening. Why it was so late notice is another story. When I arrived, I checked in at the Indigo Pearl, which claims to be the best boutique hotel on Phuket. It was like an "Indiana Jones finds buried treasure in the jungle of Thailand" vibe. It was one of, if not the nicest hotel I've ever stayed in, and at a rate that is roughly half of what the best western would cost in Santa Barbara. I had to resist the urge to just stay at the hotel the whole short time I was in Phuket. 
My room was beautiful. The shower was bigger than my whole bathroom in Berkeley and the bathtub was equally impressive.
-me in bathtub pic 
I got in late so during my first night I just ran around the room excitedly looking at all the stuff, and then drew a bath and ate the welcome fruit basket as I soaked. It had rambutans, green tangerines, and this purple fruit with a white inside that I still don't know the name of. I didn't know how to eat it so I tried some of the bright magenta peel which was so bitter I had to spit it out. But the white fruit on the inside was delicious! 
I got up early the next morning to go to the complimentary breakfast and plan my day. It was the most elaborate breakfast Buffett I have ever been to. There was a juice bar, omelette bar, latte bar, fried rice and other Thai breakfast items, an assertion of tropical fruit, at least twenty different kinds of pastries, cheeses, cereal, toast with six or seven kinds of spread, and my personal favorite: a waffle/pancake/crepes/doughnut bar with vanilla and chocolate sauce, Nutella, maple syrup, powdered sugar, and chocolate chips. Everything was freshly made in front of you, and in the most beautiful Indiana-jones decorated outdoor setting. Obviously I had to take full advantage of this so I made myself 3 plates and went back for seconds. The papaya lime juice and the fried rice were so incredible I'm making myself so hungry writing this lol. 

After breakfast, I went to the room to figure out how to get the most of my day in Phuket. I ended up deciding my best bet would be to take a cab to Big Buddha, which was a little over an hour away. I lucked out and had the coolest cab driver who was pointing out all sorts of cool things along the way. Phuket is so lush and green and I really enjoyed being able to see so much of it. I could see big Buddha on top of the mountain from miles away. 
When we arrived at big Buddha, Mr.Dol let me out and showed me where he would be waiting. I got a sarong, which they lend to women visiting temples since you are supposed to show humility and dress modestly.  
-pic of me in sarong 

I made my way up the little trail that leads you right to the base of Big Buddha. He is surrounded with smaller, golden statues of gods of different days of the weeks and other things. From the overlook, the view of Phuket is breathtaking. There are little bells people have left with their names and wishes on them that you can ring as you walk around. I also bought a tile that will be put on the inside of big Buddha and wrote mine and my sisters name on it.

- pic of tile 
- big Buddha pics 

I enjoyed big Buddha for a while and then grabbed a coconut, returned my sarong, and found Mr. Dol waiting for me in the parking lot. 

I was told that I had to pay more if I wanted to stop at several places, but Mr.Dol was kind enough to take me anyway. We stopped at an elephant excursion place where I paid 100 baht to feed a baby elephant. 

- it looks like we are having a moment but he's really just manhandling me 

- elephant pic 

I tried to give him just one piece at a time but ended up letting him just stick his trunk in the basket and gobble it all up. It was cute. Although I felt a little bad for the elephants because I feared they might have been exploited. 

Next Mr.Dol took me to what he told me was the best temple in Phuket. I walked through the surrounding gardens for a little before going inside. The interior of the temple is breathtaking. Everything is so rich and colorful. There are flowers, golden statues of Buddha, and beautiful murals on every wall. The colors were so striking. I knew that the  experience would be an influence on my paintings. 

- pic: the second level, my favorite 


While I was on the top of the temple, it started raining. I could just barely make out the Big Buddha on the top of the mountain in the distance. I loved being up there and taking in the view in the rain :) 

Eventually, I had to leave to make sure I would be on time to my Muay Thai class. I left the temple, grabbed my soaking nikes, and found Mr.Dol waiting for me with an umbrella :) 

When I got back to the hotel I went for a Muay Thai class at the fitness center. I ended up being the only one taking the class so I got a private lesson :) Kahman was laughing at me because I kept favoring my right side and messing up the combos. Once I accidentally started kicking him when he wasn't ready lol. It was a lot of fun :) 

- Me kicking Kahman 

After Muay Thai I walked around the grounds (which are huge) and went for a Thai massage. Later I went for dinner, but once I saw the prices I decided to just order desert. I ended up ordering an apple crumble thing, but they brought me crem brulee. I didn't feel like saying anything, but a few minutes later the waitress brought me the apple crumble and told me the chef just wanted me to try both. Lol. I'm pretty sure they just messed up my order. Then I went back to my room and curled up in the super comfy bed. The pillows were extra amazing for some reason. 

I was really sad to leave the next morning but Mr.Dol picked me up and brought me to the airport which cheered me up a little bit. If you ever visit Phuket, you gotta call Mr.Dol to get you from the airport and show you around! He was awesome. 

I know I say this about every place but I want to go back! I really loved Phuket and wish I had more time there, there was so much more I wanted to experience! 